Here's an example of a functional mixin.
We have a function that takes in a single object,
has local variable isCold,
and also returns the return value of Object.assign with a target object that's blank,
a source object that you pass in,
as well as another object with two methods, melt and isCold.
Again, just to make sure we're on the same page,
let's go ahead and invoke this function and save it to a variable.
Let's call it iceCream.
For the single argument that it takes in,
it just pass in a blank object.
So, if we check out what iceCream looks like,
it should just have two methods,
melt and isCold, which
exactly what we should expect from the IceCreamFactory functional mixin.
Now, let's go ahead and write another functional mixin,
but this time let's call it ConeFactory.
Again, just for this example,
we'll keep the format pretty similar to IceCreamFactory.
We'll pass in a single object and on top of that,
we'll also have a single local variable on it.
Let's call it, isDry.
I'll set that to true because nobody likes a soggy IceCreamCone,
well, at least I don't.
Just like IceCreamFactory, let's also return the return value of Object.assign.
We'll have the target object be
a blank object and we'll have the first source object be the object that we pass in.
Again, we'll have this one have to methods as well.
We'll call the first one, soggy.
What this soggy method will do,
will just change the value of the isDry local variable over here So,
rather than true, let's go ahead and reassign isDry to false.
What we want to do is have another method that simply returns the value of isDry.
We can just call this property isDry.
Great. So, I'm going to hit Enter.
Now, let me actually go ahead and clear my console,
just so I have a little bit more space.
So, just as we mentioned,
one of the great things about a functional mixin is that its composable.
We can actually use them as individual pieces of code
that add specific properties like an assembly line.
Now, that we have are two functions defined,
we can do something pretty interesting.
Let's go ahead and make a new variable and call it iceCreamCone.
What this will be, is a return value of
one function passed in as an argument into another function.
So, in other words,
we actually pass return value of
cone factory which is an object as the argument into IceCreamFactory.
Again, over here for IceCreamFactory,
the object that we pass in,
is simply just going to be the return value of
cone factory and will pass into cone factory an empty object.
If we track what iceCreamCone looks like,
we see that it's a new object with four methods at it,
soggy, isDry, melt, and isCold.
So, essentially what we did over here,
was that since we know that functional mixins are composable,
we can actually create a cone using the cone factory and
extend it from the functions from the IceCreamFactory.